Create 2024-10-30-openrefine-developer-role.md (#395)
OpenRefine/openrefine.org: blog/2024-10-30-openrefine-developer-role.md

Key responsibilities include bug fixes, quality improvements, and ongoing maintenance, with an emphasis on features supported by grant funding. Over time, the developer will expand into release management, security maintenance, and mentorship within internship programs (e.g., GSoC, Outreachy).

## Core Responsibilities
* **Bug Fixes & Quality Improvements**
  * Prioritize and address bugs within the codebase to enhance stability and performance.
  * Improve reproducibility features (per EOSS-5 grant requirements).
  * Implement quality improvements through refactoring, optimization, and code maintenance.
* **Community Support & Engagement**
  * Participate in community forums to support OpenRefine users and volunteers, fostering a positive and engaged user community.
* **Pull Request Reviews & Ticket Triage**
  * Once familiar with the codebase, actively engage with community-submitted pull requests, providing constructive feedback and participating in collaborative review processes.

>   * Assist with ticket triage to identify and prioritize key issues and opportunities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Assist with issue triage to identify and prioritize project goals and opportunities.
```

Reviewer: We should always be triaging with an eye towards project goals or goal posts or milestones, as well as security issues.

  * Once familiar with the codebase, actively engage with community-submitted pull requests, providing constructive feedback and participating in collaborative review processes.
  * Assist with ticket triage to identify and prioritize key issues and opportunities.
* **Progressive Onboarding into Release Management & Security Updates**
  * Upon receiving commit privileges, assist in merging pull requests to support the workflow of community contributions.

>   * ake on Release Manager responsibilities to prepare and publish new releases, coordinating with the community on release planning.

Reviewer 2: "ake" Is that a typo?

Reviewer 3: @Ainali I think it should be 'take'

Author: corrected

>   * Support programs such as Google Summer of Code (GSoC) and Outreachy, mentoring interns, reviewing their contributions, and fostering a supportive learning environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Support programs, such as Google Summer of Code (GSoC) and Outreachy, by mentoring interns, reviewing their contributions, and fostering a supportive learning environment.
```

Reviewer: They will support those program **by** mentoring...  right?

## Work Environment & Reporting Structure

> This is a fully remote role with flexible working hours, allowing the developer to organize their time freely over the month. This role requires a self-motivated, independent approach, with minimal direct supervision. The OpenRefine Developer will primarily work with volunteers, including members of the Advisory Committee and most technical contributors. The OpenRefine community collaborates asynchronously through public forums and GitHub, accommodating the diverse time zones and work patterns of contributors. Occasional travel may be expected to attend relevant conferences and meetings, enabling valuable in-person engagement with the OpenRefine community and the broader open-source ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a fully remote role with flexible working hours, allowing the developer to organize their time freely over each month. This role requires a self-motivated, independent approach, with minimal direct supervision. The OpenRefine Developer will primarily work with volunteers, including members of the Advisory Committee and most technical contributors. The OpenRefine community collaborates asynchronously through public forums and GitHub, accommodating the diverse time zones and work patterns of contributors. Occasional travel may be expected to attend relevant conferences and meetings, enabling valuable in-person engagement with the OpenRefine community and the broader open-source ecosystem.
```

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be each month, since it's a 9 month contract and not 1 month contract?

> This is a fully remote role with flexible working hours, allowing the developer to organize their time freely over the month. The OpenRefine Developer will primarily work with volunteers, including members of the Advisory Committee and most technical contributors. The OpenRefine community collaborates asynchronously through public forums and GitHub, accommodating the diverse time zones and work patterns of contributors. Occasional travel may be expected to attend relevant conferences and meetings, enabling valuable in-person engagement with the OpenRefine community and the broader open-source ecosystem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is a fully remote role with flexible working hours, allowing the developer to organize their time freely over the month. The OpenRefine Developer will primarily work with volunteers, including members of the Advisory Committee and most technical contributors. The OpenRefine community collaborates asynchronously through public forums and GitHub, accommodating the diverse time zones and work patterns of contributors. Occasional travel may be expected to attend relevant conferences and meetings, enabling valuable in-person engagement with the OpenRefine community and the broader open-source ecosystem.
```

> The developer will report to the OpenRefine Advisory Committee, which will guide project goals and prioritization. For technical supervision and mentorship, the developer will collaborate closely with the OpenRefine Committer Group—comprising both volunteer contributors and paid contractors—to facilitate their integration with the codebase and OpenRefine’s development standards.

Reviewer: Does it have to say "report to the OpenRefine Advisory Committee"?
What prevents this from being changed to "report to the Project Manager"?
The Project Manager through governance currently has the direct role now of guiding project goals and prioritization - where the Advisory Committee does not have a direct role in guiding project goals and prioritization.
```suggestion
The developer will report to the Project Manager, which will guide project goals and prioritization. For technical supervision and mentorship, the developer will collaborate closely with the OpenRefine Committer Group—comprising both volunteer contributors and paid contractors—to facilitate their integration with the codebase and OpenRefine’s development standards.
```

> The developer will report to the OpenRefine Advisory Committee, which will guide project goals and prioritization. For technical supervision and mentorship, the developer will collaborate closely with the OpenRefine Committer Group—comprising both volunteer contributors and paid contractors—to facilitate their integration with the codebase and OpenRefine’s development standards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The OpenRefine Advisory Committee handles the administrative aspects for this role in collaboration with CS&S. The OpenRefine Project Manager guide project goals and prioritization, and is another resource for the OpenRefine Deveoper. For technical supervision and mentorship, the developer will collaborate closely with the OpenRefine Committer Group—comprising both volunteer contributors and paid contractors—to facilitate their integration with the codebase and OpenRefine’s development standards. The Committer Group sets the technical roadmap for the project and reviews merge requests.
```

Author: I incorporated those suggestion in the revisionon of the Working Environment section.

> This role requires a self-motivated, independent approach, with minimal direct supervision. Weekly check-ins with the Advisory Committee and Project Manager will provide alignment with OpenRefine’s broader objectives and ongoing support as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This role requires a self-motivated, independent approach, with minimal direct supervision. Weekly check-ins with the Advisory Committee and Project Manager will provide give the OpenRefine Developer the chance to report back on their work, and gain understanding of OpenRefine’s broader objectives and ongoing support as needed.
```

Author: I incorporated those suggestions in the revision of the Working Environment section.

> This role requires a self-motivated, independent approach, with minimal direct supervision. Weekly check-ins with the Advisory Committee and Project Manager will provide alignment with OpenRefine’s broader objectives and ongoing support as needed.

Reviewer 4: I think we should replace "with minimal direct supervision." with something that would reflect the fact that there will be direct supervision in the form of weekly check-ins (as stated in the next sentence) but that the expectation is that they will drive the check-ins by deciding what will be in their weekly reports. 

Something along the lines of: This role requires a self-motivated, independent approach, with the expectation of weekly weekly check-ins with the Advisory Committee and Project Manager. The developer is expected to prioritize elements that need to be addressed with the Advisory Committee and the Committee will provide alignment with OpenRefine’s broader objectives and ongoing support as needed.

Author: I incorporated those suggestions in the revision of the Working Environment section.

## Skills 

> * **Java Proficiency**: As OpenRefine’s core codebase is Java, strong experience in Java is crucial.

Reviewer 2: Since we have a "Nice to have" below, should this bullet point list start with "Required"?
